If you think you can figure
out how to code a block
that's not there, good.
How would you store
that information?
The most common thing to use
in this kind of form of binary.
One of the things
that we set up
and tell them
from the very beginning
is that in computer science
there is no one way
to do anything.
We didn't want them to raise
their hand and say,
"Well, what block
do I put here?"
So, we tried to think about
what strategies we could use
and what we could give them
that they could use
independently.
Okay, so then
this will likely be
what you put in that report,
this exact variable.
♪
Yesterday in class,
we introduced them
to what the goal was
and we had them
break that down
into large high level of tasks.
-The X value and the Y value.
-Yeah.
Today's Do Now asks them
to review those tasks,
see where they thought
issues might come up,
what things they thought
might be challenging.
When you're coding something,
it's endless.
You can go up the straight path
or you can go down
the rocky mountains
and you'll still end up
in the same place,
but you first
have to write it out
in how you would do it
and make it your own.
It's very easy for the students
to get bogged down
in the minor details
of the code
and not think about
the big picture,
so we ask them to get
an outline on paper first,
then we ask them to play
around with the code.
-Okay?
-Okay.
We work on our code
or try to solve,
like, a certain problem,
then we'll share to the class
and everyone will,
like, describe
what problems they faced
or--and how they solved it.
If the number is, like,
divisible by four
and make the third zero
in the sequence one.
And the share out
actually saw us step through
the one that
they had discussed
so that everyone
came away with
at least this one algorithm
that they had a sense
of how to complete.
We need to, like, subtract it
from that number
because, like,
64 will obviously
fit in a number
that 128 fits in.
You're absolutely right.
I think a lot of education
focuses on
the product
and not necessarily the process
and how you get there.
I think that our course
is useful
because we highlight
that through
the critical thinking
algorithm that we use.
♪
It's not only about
the thing that you produce,
it's about how you get there.
♪
When it comes to debugging,
we have incorporated
a number of strategies in there:
breaking the code
into sections,
isolating variables
and changing them
so that you can get
a different answer,
trying to break the code.
♪
It sort of encapsulates
all of these things
that we noticed
we kept coming over
and the kids would say,
"What do I do,"
and we kept giving
the same answers.
We tried to put that
into one cohesive document
which would allow them
to take ownership
and that way
we don't come over
and put out so many fires.
And it works.
The critical thinking
problem-solving algorithm...
♪
...it allows students
to take a process
to get where they need to go,
to break down a problem
and to decide what steps
they need to take,
what concrete actions
they need to take.
It fosters independence
and that's its purpose.
...the red thing,
they all go away.
We wanted it to be
something we could use for
regardless what program
we're using,
regardless of what level
the student is at,
and so that's what this is.
It asks them to start
at the very beginning.
So, first things first,
what do you want to do?
♪
What I want a student
to be able to do
is to begin by explaining
and isolating
what exactly is their problem,
why is it not working,
and start finding
where the problems exist.
We also like them
to be able to collaborate
and work together,
so we encourage them
before calling one of us
over with a problem
to start by turning
to the person next to them,
turning to the person
in front or behind,
start asking if somebody else
has seen the same problem
and knows how to fix it.
Can we put in the directions...
Okay, if we can--
We're gonna wrap it up,
if we can get
everybody's focus over here,
we're gonna do
a quick share out.
In the class,
what I like about it
is that a lot of the work,
it's like us doing
and we have to figure it out
by ourselves.
Students can take away
from this course
the ability to step back
and be reflective.
They can take away
from this course
the ability to isolate things
and focus on them
before connecting them
to other larger pieces,
and I think that beyond that
it shows students
that it's okay to struggle
to get there.
This is a skill that
they're gonna need in life.
You're gonna get things wrong
and, in fact,
that's how you learn.
♪